                         Babel Error Reports
 
                           20 February 2004

ERROR REPORTS

Before you report an error please check that:

 * The error has not already been reported.  If you have WWW
   access, you can search the LaTeX bugs database using this URL:

   http://www.latex-project.org/bugs.html

 * The error is not caused by software other than the Babel software
   that is produced and maintained by me (please report problems with
   other software to the authors or suppliers of that software).

 * The error is not caused by using an obsolete version of any file or
   of other software. 

 * You are using the original version of all files, not one that has
   been modified elsewhere.

If you think you have found a genuine bug in a recent version of the
Babel software please report it in the same way as bugs for LaTeX2e
are reported:

 * Prepare a *short* test file that clearly demonstrates your
   problem; see below for a discussion of `short'.

 * Run this file through latex to obtain the transcript file
   (often .log) since you will need to submit this file also.
 
 * Generate a bug report template by running the file
   latexbug.tex through LaTeX2e.

 * Fill in the spaces in the generated template file. Please note that
   the reporting language is *English* irregardless of the fact, that
   the address you are sending the bug report to, might not be in an
   English speaking country. Reports received in a language other than
   English might not be understandable for the person currently
   looking at bug reports!
 
 * Include all necessary information, especially a complete input
   file, a complete transcript file, and all other files used (if they
   are not standard).

   Please check carefully to ensure that any non-standard files are
   essential to the bug; and remember that I cannot debug files not
   supplied by me.

   Any such non-standard files should be included in a `filecontents'
   environment at the start of your input file. This allows me to
   run your test file without a lot of manual preparation; this is 
   essential since we have to deal with many reports, not just with
   the one written by you.

 * Please note that it is important to make the input file as small
   as possible since this will enable me to find and fix the error
   quickly.  It also helps me because then I can often use it as test
   file for future releases.
   
   I would expect most files to be less than 60 lines, and very
   rarely to be longer than 100 lines.
   
   This can often be achieved by defining a command to be some
   arbitrary text and using this several times if it is necessary to
   generate longer bits of text.

Error reports concerning UNCHANGED versions of Babel files should be
sent by E-mail to:

  latex-bugs@latex-project.org

You will receive an acknowledgement by E-mail containing at the
beginning of its subject line a problem reference of the form
category/number, e.g. babel/1234. Please use this subject line in ALL
further E-mails concerning the problem. Otherwise your reply will be
categorized and filed separately.
 
--- Copyright 2004 Johannes Braams.  All rights reserved ---
